Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to provide a solution to our template method.
Challenge mainly about processing flow of orders.
So we're gonna create a new project we're gonna name this template method solution Template Method solution
our first step is gonna be to create the abstract class where this is the one that contains the template
method we're gonna name this order process template and this is gonna be abstract and we're going to
first define some of the abstract methods that the concrete templates have to implement.
We're also gonna have a member variable to determine whether or not we want gift wrapping.
So we're gonna say public boolean is gift.
I'll be our first one and then we'll have some abstract methods and these will be some of the steps
in the algorithm.
So we'll see a public abstract void.
Do select.
This is gonna select whether we're processing the order online or in a store and then we're also going
to have one for due payment.
And this will determine how we pay either through a credit card or other means.
So do payment and then we'll have a final public final void for our gift wrap because this is gonna
be common to both.
Because you can gift wrap either if it's when processing either if it's online or not online.
This is just gonna do a try catch if the gift wrap was successful or not successful so we'll just put
gift wrap was successful.
That's by our best bet it's just to say we chose gift wrapped and it was successful to them like.
Like that again I'm putting information to know that it was invoked.
We're also going to have an abstract do delivery and this will be called public abstract void to delivery
and this will be implemented by the subclasses.
Now we wanted to find the template method itself and remember.
So this is the actual Template Method.
This will be a public and we want to make sure it's fine all right.
The template method should always be final because you don't want the subclasses messing around with
this has a specific order.
So a public final void process order and the process order can actually set whether or not we want gift
wrapping.
Many ways to implement this this is just one concerning the gift wrapping.
So we can say is gift and then what this is gonna do is it's going to contain the steps in the algorithm.
So it's first going to select that it's going to do the payment right and then it's gonna check the
boolean variable and if it's gift wrapping it will then do gift wrap otherwise regardless it's always
gonna do a delivery at the end.
So there's four steps in this template method.
OK.
The next thing we need to do is we need to implement these concrete classes for ordering.
So we're gonna create one for our net order.
So this is gonna be called Class net order.
And this is going to extend our order processing template.
We're gonna need to override methods for due select do payment and do delivery.
And when we select it it's just going to say the item was added to a shopping cart and that we're automatically
going to get the gift wrap presence preference sorry and we're gonna get the delivery address because
of its online.
We know that we're gonna need to do these and we're also going to override due payment due payment is
going to go through some kind of online payment not baking or paypal so we then just output hard hardcoded
data saying that the last thing we need to implement for the overridden is the do delivery and this
is just kind of display that we ship the item through the post office to a delivery address want to
fix or double call our other concrete class for ordering is our store order stored or is going to do
things differently because it's not online.
This is gonna be called store order extends order process template.
This is going to override the three methods.
So when you select for a store or it's just going to say a customer chooses the item from the shelf
they don't need to add anything to a shopping cart.
They just go off the shelf and pick it to do payment is gonna say pay at the card counter through CAS
cash or pay us point of sale.
The delivery is you just going to deliver it through that you're just gonna take a home really.
So you just item delivery delivered at the delivery counter.
So those are our concrete classes.
They implement the steps from the template method and they're different.
Right.
They're going to you're going to do things differently if you're processing or through the Internet
or for processing in order through the store.
And that's what's reflected here.
The algorithm stays the same.
And it's final so the subclasses can't mess with it.
You're always going to first see what the type of ordering it is you're going to get the payment.
You then always gonna do a gift wrap.
Whether or not it's true or false and then you're gonna do a delivery.
So now in create the client here we can say new job a class client and this is gonna have our important
main method.
And what this is gonna do is it's first going to either it's going to create the right template right
either net order or a store order.
So first we'll test in that order.
And so all we want to do is we want to say order process template not order equals new net order.
We then want to call the process order template method in the abstract class on this instance.
And so through poly it's gonna call this abstract implementation and then through polymorphism is going
to call the right one based on and we're also going to say we want this gift wrap.
So we're gonna pass in through we're then just gonna print out a new line so that we can read what's
going on here.
This will be basically saying you know we changed the template so we can just say we changed the template
to a store order.
And so now we just gotta create a new instance of a order process template a new store order.
And then again we call the process order.
So we just say something like this.
You say order process template store order equals new store order.
And then we can just say store order thought process order and we can say true for gift wrapping.
Know when you run this you'll see that different steps are going to be called depending on the instance
type store not in the algorithm.
So let's go ahead and build this and run it and we'll see these different algorithms different steps
in the algorithms so if we look at the output we'll notice that we added When we first our first order
was in that order.
So we added it to the online shopping cart we got the gift wrap preference and we got the delivery address
and then we paid through some kind of online payment.
We wrap the gifts successfully and we ship the item to the post office.
We then change the template to a store order.
And in this case the store order the customer just chooses from the shelf pays at the counter through
cash wraps the gift and the item is delivered to the customer at the delivery counter.
They just take it home.
And so this is a solution to our previous challenge.
If you have any questions please let me know in the queue.
Thank you.